>> Kyle Simpson: I asked at
the beginning of the course
how many of you have heard
of the term hoisting.
Many of you raised your hand,
we've all heard this term.
In fact, members of TC39
site hoisting as an actual,
real thing that happens in JavaScript.
It's a nice good shortcut but
it's actually a made up metaphor.
It doesn't really exist.
So I want to explain how the metaphor
works, and how then you can make that
connection mentally to what we now
know of how JavaScript really works,
which is the lexical scoping
enforced by the compiler, okay?
So, hoisting, if I looked at this piece
of code and I hadn't taught you anything,
and then I asked you,
what is gonna happen with line 1?
Typically, I'll get
different kinds of answers.
Some people will say, well I'm gonna
get an error cuz A doesn't exist.
Other people are gonna say well
A exist but it's gonna be undefined.
And still a third class of folks
would say A is gonna be the value 2,
cuz they're sort of thinking it runs
like all the way through it and
then hoist the value up or something.
Only one of those can
be the correct answer.
Let's be clear.
So which is it?
Which is the correct answer?
Given what we now know about how
the compiler works, we can say definitely
there will be an A because it would have
found the var A on line 3 at compile time.
Registered it to the scope and then when
we tried to access it on line one there
is a variable but at that moment it has
no value so it has the undefined value.
That's a very simple explanation but it
requires you to think about the two paths,
and sometimes people don't like to
talk about the two paths thing.
So we came up with a shorthand for
describing how this really works.
The shorthand is to say that we took the
variable declarations, only the variable
declarations, not the assignments, and
moved them to the top of the scope.
As if JavaScript could somehow magically
look ahead, find all the declarations, and
re-order the code to move them to the top
and then execute starting with line one.
Looked at this way, you could see
very clearly how we could come to
the conclusion of what
happens with line 3.
Surely there is a var
a because we saw it on line 1,
but surely it has no value because
we haven't assigned it on line 5.
So, it's a shorthand to
describe what we already know.
Which is that variables belong
to their enclosing functions.
>> Kyle Simpson: It is this point there's
idea of hoisting that people say well,
that's not lexical skill.
Yes it is.
It's absolutely lexical scope.
It just happens to be that we use
the function as the unit of scope in
JavaScript as opposed to many
languages which only use the block.
We're saying, this function gets this
variable, the scope gets this variable
no matter where it was declared in there,
because it happens at compile time.
So, it can be a nice convenient way of
describing it if you think about it.
If you just sort of squint at it and
say okay, I don't need to worry about the
fact that it's not actually possible for
JavaScript to look ahead and
find things and reorder.
That doesn't even make any sense.
It would have to parse to
figure out what to move anyway.
But even if that was not what was
happening, I mean it isn't what was
happening, but even if it was what's
happening, it's a nice shorthand for
us to describe what's really going
on with the two-pass system.
>> Kyle Simpson: And it goes not only for
variable declarations, but also for
function declarations.
Heads up if you've been wondering why
should I use a function declaration over
a function declaration.
Here you're about to get
an answer to that question.
Variable declarations and
function declarations are hoisted but
assignments, logical, actually executable
code, that can't get reassigned.
I mean that can't get relocated
because the relocation could break
the whole logic of our code.
So, we cannot reorder executable code.
We can only reorder declarations.
So, this code, properly thought of in the
hoisting metaphor, would look like that.
We hoisted the function b,
then we hoisted the vars a, c, and d.
But you'll notice that on line
11 we still have the execution
of the assignment of that function
expression to a variable d.
So in other words,
the function expression didn't hoist.
Cuz it's executable code, it can't hoist.
That would create havoc.
So, we can use function b on line 7,
but what would happen on line 8
when we try to use function d?
>> Speaker 2: Undefined?
>> Kyle Simpson: Well,
d would be undefined on line a.
So if we try to execute an undefined
value, we're getting get a type error,
you're not allow to execute undefined.
So when you ask the question,
why do you prefer a function
declaration over a function expression?
One of my answers to that question is,
I prefer to have function hoisting so
that I can declare a function at
the bottom and use it above, and
know that's gonna be hoisted.
I prefer that style of code.
>> Kyle Simpson: How many of you
have ever heard of recursion before?
Okay, how many you have
heard of mutual recursion?
Mutual recursion is when two or
more functions reference each
other in a recursive call stack.
Here I've got three function,
a calls b, b calls c, c calls a.
Thinking about mutual recursion,
which is a particular technique that is
good at solving some particular
types of computing science problems.
Mutual recursion is quite useful.
But if we did not have
a notion of function hoisting,
it would be impossible to express
a mutually recursive program.
Because one of these functions
would always be declared too late.
>> Kyle Simpson: We can move b
before a and c before b, but
then a needs to move before.
We're never gonna be able to
express these functions in
the correct order because they have
a circular dependency on each other.
Function hoisting allows us to do that.
How many of you have written C
programming code before, anybody?
Do you remember writing header files?
What was the most common thing
you put into your header file?
The function signature, right?
Java stopped to wonder why
you needed to do that.
The reason you had to do that is so
that the compiler, the GNU Compiler or
whatever yours was using, so
that it knew what the functions were.
You were essentially manually hoisting
with your head of filed operations.
And JavaScript is automatically
hoisting these declarations for you.
Yes?
>> Speaker 3: Can you go back a little
bit into the hoisting again cuz I've
been taught that always avoid function
declaration in favor of name.
>> Kyle Simpson: There's a lot
of misinformation out there.
>> Speaker 3: Right,
so I'm a little, okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: Let me try
to illustrate it in this way.
>> Kyle Simpson: Go over to my editor.
>> Kyle Simpson: If I said, that program,
would we all agree that it's gonna work?
Yes, cuz we're gonna find the var,
or it's gonna hoist,
however you want to describe it.
But would we agree that that's not
a particularly good style of code?
It's kinda designed to sorta
be confusing to people, right?
So because you can do that,
people typically say hoisting is bad,
don't do hoisting.
Okay?
What about this program?
>> Kyle Simpson: Is that
program gonna work?
>> Kyle Simpson: Do we feel exactly
the same about that style as if we're
saying that function needs to be written
earlier in the file before we use it?
I certainly spent the first
15 to 16 years of my
JavaScript writing as well
as in every other one.
Writing all my code like that,
every file you opened up,
I have all my functions at the top and I
have all my executable code at the bottom.
And a few years back I got to thinking
man it's a lot more work for me to
open up a file and scroll all the way to
the bottom looking for executable code.
What if I just pull all of my
executable code at the top?
It'd be a lot easier to find, right?
And because functions hoist I don't
need to worry about that anymore.
So I just go ahead and
put a little comment there,
and draw myself a little visual line.
And I know that all of my executable
code is gonna be above that line.
And that's usually the stuff I care about.
All the functions will be listed below.
Doesn't matter what order they're listed
in, because they're all gonna get hoisted,
and they're all usable.
So I made the decision from
a code style perspective,
function hoisting is
a really good useful thing.
Variable hoisting not so much.
Should we throw out all of hoisting,
should we say all of hoisting is bad?
I think this example of usage of
hoisting is actually pretty good.
Now, different people
have different styles.
My recommendation is to
consider this approach.
Because I have actually implemented
this now for the last several years, and
I find my code to be a lot more
readable now that I do it this way.
And by the way, I do it with every single
scope even if it's a function within
a function, I put the function declaration
at the bottom of the outer function and
I put all my executable code
at the top of the function,
cuz the exact same principle applies,
it's easier to find the executable code.
So, if foo had some function bar
inside of it that did something,
[COUGH] I'd have the function
bar at the bottom.
And then I'd have a line that demarcated
where all the function stuff was.
I'd have all my executable code here,
including a return statement.
So it's very easy and quick to figure
out in a function what's it gonna do,
and not have to scroll through potentially
thousands of lines of inner functions to
find where the executable code is.
And if I need to look at bar,
I just scroll down and find bar.
Sometimes people find
that to be unnerving,
that you've declared stuff
after a return statement.
In my opinion, this is using one
of the strengths of JavaScript,
this hoisting, to our advantage.
So back to our mutual recursion example.
The function hoisting that's occurring
is what's allowing us to do this.
So it's allowing us to call a(1) up
on that line, even though a hasn't
actually been declared yet, because
the compiler already declared that for us.
The compiler already handled that part for
us.
Some of you may be wondering in your head,
what does this return?
Sometimes we'll take
an example to try this out.
I'll just go ahead and
tell you this returns the value 39.
It specifically does not
return the value 42,
cuz that's what everybody guesses, okay?
>> Kyle Simpson: Last point to make
on hoisting, back to our friend,
the let keyword.
You remember that I said that let
key words cant be duplicated.
One of the other behaviors
of the let key word,
it's often said that
the let does not hoist.
You'll notice here I'm using let baz on
line 4 but I'm referencing baz on line 3.
If we'd done that with a var that
would have worked just fine.
When we do it with a let,
we're gonna get an error.
Specifically, and
I did not make this up, specifically,
that error is called a TDZ,
a temporal dead zone error.
Don't know where they came up with
that name, it's pretty crazy to me.
But the temporal dead zone
error is using a variable
in the period of time from the beginning
of that lexical environment to the point
at which that variable
has been initialized.
Now, we think of line 4 as
the initialization, but
I'll just tell you the initialization
has nothing to do with the equal sign.
If line 4 said let baz semicolon,
that would still be
the initialization of baz on line 4.
So it's not about the assignment part.
There is a nuance here that you only
get if you dig into the spec like
nerds like me do.
There's a nuance here that when you
use a var keyword, two things happen.
Only one of which is actually hoisting.
What we really mean by hoisting.
The first thing that happens
when a var keyword is used,
is that variable is added at compile
time to the enclosing lexical scope.
We already know that part.
The second thing that happens, which we
didn't talk about, is that at runtime,
when that scope starts,
when that scope is entered, any variables
that were added to the lexical environment
get initialized to their undefined value.
So they are then available to be
used throughout the entire scope.
Let keywords only do one
of those two things.
Let keywords add their declaration to
there enclosing lexical environment scope,
but they do not initialize them
at the beginning of the scope.
They only get initialized
at that undefined value
at the presence of the let keyword.
So from the beginning of our environment
to the moment that the let keyword for
that declaration shows up,
it is in an uninitialized state and
therefore cannot be used.
>> Speaker 4: What is the reasoning for
that?
>> Kyle Simpson: Cost is the same.
Although you can't reassign a cost,
so you can't actually separate them.
>> Speaker 4: What's the reasoning for
that, why doesn't it
get hoisted like a bar?
>> Kyle Simpson: So,
let me separate out your two questions.
What's the reasoning for this behavior?
Ostensibly, the reason for the behavior
is exactly what I said before,
it's bad code style to
say a equals 2 var a.
It's bad code style here to
say console.log(baz); and
then assign baz on a different line,
right?
There no really a functional problem,
it's just a bad coding style
that can be more confusing.
So, extensively they put in an error
to prevent you from doing that.
There's more or
new [INAUDIBLE] to it than that.
That's the most easiest way to explain.
>> Speaker 4: Thinking that if you
used a variable before assigning it,
before declaring it, that's potentially
a mistake that you've made.
So it's trying to help
you by saying this is.
>> Kyle Simpson: That's
essentially what they're saying.
It's probably a mistake,
it's probably a stylistic problem.
So you shouldn't do it so
let's go ahead and make it an error.
I would agree that if you
use a variable before you've
declared it,
it's probably not a good idea.
But as I just illustrated using
functions before you've declared them
makes a whole lot of sense.
The second point,
I'm gonna get to your question but
the second point you said
that it doesn't hoist.
A lot of people say let does not hoist.
While it's convenient to say it that way,
that's not technically accurate,
the hoisting part is adding your variable
to the enclosing lexicon scope and
both of them do that.
Hoisting does not actually
describe the initialization point,
that is a separate thing and
that's what different between var and let.
So technically let still hoist.
They just don't initialize it at
the beginning of the environment scope
like vars do.
And it's that lack of initialization
that they kept out so
that you'd get an error if you
used it temporarily or too early.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 4: I know it's a
>> Kyle Simpson: There's no difference
here with strict.
>> Speaker 4: Same function
declaration hoists and.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yep, there's no
difference with lexical scope and.
>> Speaker 4: No,
I mean like in the strict mode,
if you reference var before declaring it
>> Kyle Simpson: It's not
a strict mode error.
>> Speaker 4: Your example where you
say a equal 1, and then you say var A?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yes.
What I'm saying is in strict mode,
it's not an error.
It behaves exactly the same between
strict mode or nonstrict mode.
>> Kyle Simpson: The nice convenient
shortcut, cuz hoisting let's be honest,
hoisting is a shortcut definition,
it's an easier way of describing, the nice
easy way of describing it, which is what
most people say is let's don't hoist.
Okay, so if you don't wanna be super
nuanced about the actual spec language,
you can just say lets don't hoist.
>> Speaker 5: It does,
it just doesn't get initialized.
>> Kyle Simpson: Right,
that's the actual answer.
It does hoist, it just get initialized.